Google API Key:
https://aistudio.google.com/apikey

A Google API key is a unique identifier that allows your application to make authorized requests to Google's services. 
Think of it as a special access code that tells Google.
If you set the environment variable GEMINI_API_KEY or GOOGLE_API_KEY, 
the API key will automatically be picked up by the client when using one of the Gemini API libraries. 
It's recommended that you set only one of those variables, but if both are set, GOOGLE_API_KEY takes precedence.

For more information:
https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs/api-key
Manage API Key - https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/api-keys

Remember this: Agent state and memory with ADK -
https://cloud.google.com/blog/topics/developers-practitioners/remember-this-agent-state-and-memory-with-adk

adk web is a command-line tool that launches a browser-based interface to interact with ADK agents. 
It dynamically loads your Python agent code, connects to external tools (via MCP),
and test the agent behavior in real time.(UI)

run the my-first-agent using the below command:
adk web --no-reload

--no-reload argument -> disables the auto-reload feature and avoids the problematic subprocess behavior, 
allowing the web UI to launch successfully on Windows.

When adk web is run without --no-reload, it tries to enable auto-reloading of the agent code whenever changes are detected. 
This feature relies on Python’s asyncio and watchdog libraries to restart the server in the background.
However, on Windows, this can trigger the following error:
  NotImplementedError: _make_subprocess_transport() not implemented
  This happens because:
  Windows uses a different event loop policy (ProactorEventLoop) that doesn’t support certain subprocess operations 
  used by the auto-reloader.  The auto-reload mechanism tries to spawn subprocesses in a way that’s incompatible 
  with Windows’ asyncio backend.

hence in windows use adk web --no-reload

Note: Always execute the command from the Parent folder , rather than project folder
In this case Project folder is my-first-agent so navigate to GOOGLEADKdEMOS

Commands to execute in the terminal:
  api_server  Starts a FastAPI server for agents.
  create      Creates a new app in the current folder with prepopulated agent template.
  deploy      Deploys agent to hosted environments.
  eval        Evaluates an agent given the eval sets.
  run         Runs an interactive CLI for a certain agent.
  web         Starts a FastAPI server with Web UI for agents.

Creating a project:
--------------------
Creates a new app in the current folder with prepopulated agent template.
  APP_NAME: required, the folder of the agent source code.
  Example:
    adk create path/to/my_app
Options:
--------
  --model TEXT    Optional. The model used for the root agent.
  --api_key TEXT  Optional. The API Key needed to access the model, e.g. Google AI API Key.
  --project TEXT  Optional. The Google Cloud Project for using VertexAI as backend.
  --region TEXT   Optional. The Google Cloud Region for using VertexAI as backend.
  --help          Show this message and exit.

  https://google.github.io/adk-docs/api-reference/python/


Tool:
In the context of ADK, a Tool represents a specific capability provided to an AI agent, 
enabling it to perform actions and interact with the world beyond its core text generation and reasoning abilities.
What distinguishes capable agents from basic language models is often their effective use of tools.
Technically, a tool is typically a modular code component—like a Python/ Java function,
a class method, or even another specialized agent—designed to execute a distinct, predefined task. 

Tool Types in ADK:
------------------
Function Tools: Tools created by you, tailored to your specific application's needs.
Functions/Methods: Define standard synchronous functions or methods in your code (e.g., Python def).
Agents-as-Tools: Use another, potentially specialized, agent as a tool for a parent agent.
Long Running Function Tools: Support for tools that perform asynchronous operations or take significant time to complete.
Built-in Tools: Ready-to-use tools provided by the framework for common tasks. 
  Examples: Google Search, Code Execution, Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG).
Third-Party Tools: Integrate tools seamlessly from popular external libraries. 
  Examples: LangChain Tools, CrewAI Tools.

Function tools:
------------------
Function tools are custom functions that you define in your code to perform specific tasks.
  demo: 3-agent-sentiment


Before going with built-in tools, let discuss about Session and memory

user: userId
Session: Session is the ADK object designed specifically to track and manage these individual conversation threads.
         Represents a single, ongoing interaction between a user and your agent system.
         A Session can also hold temporary data (State) relevant only during this conversation.

Events: Event represent every significant occurrence during an agent's interaction lifecycle, 
        from initial user input to the final response and all the steps in between.
        Events are the primary way components communicate, 
        state is managed, and control flow is directed.
        It captures user messages, agent replies, requests to use tools (function calls), tool results, 
        state changes, control signals, and errors.


Session: InMemorySession() - To create the session use SessionService of google ADK
The session service will create a session when ever the user starts the runners/agent Execution
session detials like start the session, session updates, session termination will be stored in the Events.
To access the events we have runners, configure the runners accordingly to retrieve the session details
            eg: 5-agent-weatherandtime-session, Run the agent with Run button but not with adk web option, 
                then it helps to load the logs of the session and events

Built in tools:
----------------------
Ready-to-use tools provided by the framework for common tasks. 
Examples include Google Search, Code Execution, and Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG).
  demo: 6-agent-buildtool, Execute the agent with adk web --no-reload option
        Send the query -> what is Google ADK
        Once got the response from the LLM
        On the dev UI -> Navigate to Trace and click on Invocations > what is Google ADK -> in that option click on call_llm 
        Observe the Event, Request, Response and Graph options on the right hand side of the UI
        Click on Event to see the events occured
        Click on Request tab to see the  tools as part of config - JSON.Observe the JSON that it shows the google search tool.
      

Third party tools like LangChain, CrewAI
----------------------------------------
Tavily API using Langchain, in Google ADK
  demo: 7-agent-langchaintool, Execute the agent with adk web --no-reload option
        Send the query -> what is Cloud burst?
        Once got the response from the LLM
        On the dev UI -> Navigate to Trace and click on Invocations > what is Cloud burst? -> in that option click on call_llm 
        Observe the Event, Request, Response and Graph options on the right hand side of the UI
        Click on Event to see the events occured
        Click on Request tab to see the  tools as part of config - JSON.Observe the JSON that it shows the Tavily search tool.


ADK Runtime:
Core component of execution - like a engine -
once define the parts (agents, tools), and the Runtime handles how they connect and run together to fulfill a user's request.

ADK Runtime operates on an Event loop, the loop between  Runner <-> Agent, LLMs, callbacks and tools
Steps in the event loop:
------------------------
1. The Runner receives a user query and asks the main Agent to start processing.
2. The Agent (and its associated logic) runs until it has something to report (like a response, a request to use a tool, or a state change) – it then yields or emits an Event.
3. The Runner receives this Event, processes any associated actions (like saving state changes via Services), and forwards the event onwards (e.g., to the user interface).
4. Only after the Runner has processed the event does the Agent's logic resume from where it paused, now potentially seeing the effects of the changes committed by the Runner.
5. This cycle repeats until the agent has no more events to yield for the current user query.

ADK Event Loop - Runner side:
--------------------------------
Step	                What the Runner Does	                                                     
ADK Event Loop - Agent, Call back steps:
-------------------------------------------
Step	                              What Happens	                                            Easy Analogy
1.        Execute	Your code runs using the current session state.	                    Like reading the latest notes before replying.
2.        Yield	You send a message, tool call, or state update by yielding an Event.	Like saying, “Hey, I need to do this!”
3.        Pause	Your code stops running right after the yield.	                      Like waiting for someone to confirm your request.
4.        Resume	Your code resumes only after the system processes your event.	      Like continuing your task after getting the green light.
5.        See Updated State	Now you can safely read the updated session state.	      Like checking your notebook after someone added new info.

Source: https://google.github.io/adk-docs/runtime/


Agents types in Google ADK 
---------------------------
LLM Agent - Its the agent till now covered
Workflow Agents - Specialized agents 
    Agent - Sub-agents
    control the execution flow of agent with sub-agents
      Workflow agent type:
              Sequentail agents - Executes sub-agents one after another, in sequence
              Loop Agents - Repeatedly executes its sub-agents until a specific termination condition is met
              Parallel Agents - Executes sub-agents in Parallel

Need of workflow agents - based on the use-case, where these agents are operate based on the predefined logic, 
                          leads to deterministic and predicatable results.

Sequential Agents: Context: Passes the same InvocationContext sequentially, 
                  allowing agents to easily pass results via shared state.
                  example: 8-agent-multiagent-sequential

Loop Agents:  Executes its sub_agents sequentially in a loop.
              Termination: The loop stops if the optional max_iterations is reached, 
              or if any sub-agent returns an Event with escalate=True in it's Event Actions.
              Context & State: Passes the same InvocationContext in each iteration, 
              allowing state changes (e.g., counters, flags) to persist across loops.


ParallelAgent: Executes its sub_agents in parallel. 
                Events from sub-agents may be interleaved.
                Context: Modifies the InvocationContext.branch for each child agent (e.g., ParentBranch.ChildName), 
                providing a distinct contextual path which can be useful for isolating history in some memory implementations.
                State: Despite different branches, all parallel children access the same shared session.state, 
                enabling them to read initial state and write results (use distinct keys to avoid race conditions).
                





















